URL: https://variety.com/2025/film/reviews/28-years-later-review-1236435361/
Title: '28 Years Later' Review: Danny Boyle Revives His Horror Allegory

Plus Icon
Film
Plus Icon
TV
Plus Icon
What To Watch
Plus Icon
Music
Plus Icon
Docs
Plus Icon
Digital & Gaming
Plus Icon
Global
Plus Icon
Awards Circuit
Plus Icon
Video
Plus Icon
What To Hear
Plus Icon
Click to expand the Mega Menu
Plus Icon
Click to Expand Search Input
Got a Tip?
Newsletters
Switch edition between
U.S. Edition 
Variety
Home
Film
Reviews
Jun 18, 2025 2:00pm PT
CRITICS PICK
‘28 Years Later’ Review: Danny Boyle Revives — and Radically Evolves — His Hit Horror Saga in Time to Confront the Next Apocalypse

A 12-year-old boy questions the inherited assumptions his secluded community holds about the infected in a thrilling new entry in the 23-year-old horror franchise.

By Peter Debruge

Plus Icon
Courtesy of CTMG, Inc.

In “28 Days Later,” it took less than four weeks to transform London, one of the world’s busiest and most advanced cities, into an inhospitable ghost town after an outbreak of the ultra-contagious Rage virus struck the human population. Just imagine what another 10,000 or so days might do.

That’s where boundary-pushing director Danny Boyle and speculative fiction super-brain Alex Garland pick up their 2002 dystopian horror saga with “28 Years Later,” swinging to the opposite end of the U.K. to follow an entirely new set of characters. You don’t have to be a math whiz to spot that the creative duo are five years ahead of schedule. But when Boyle and Garland landed on a compelling enough reason to check back on the now-quarantined country, it hardly seems reasonable to wait. And what better catalyst could there be than the real-world disruptions caused by self-imposed isolation (Brexit) and a once-in-a-century global pandemic (COVID-19)?

Related Stories
Katie Taylor vs. Amanda Serrano 3: Most Valuable Promotions and Netflix Set On-Air Broadcast Team (EXCLUSIVE)
Inside the Viral Success of ‘KPop Demon Hunters’: ‘Fashion, Weird Girls and Great Pop Music’

Where the original film tapped into society’s collective fear of infection, its decades-later follow-up (which undoes any developments implied by “28 Weeks Later” with an opening chyron that explains the Rage virus “was driven back from continental Europe”) zeroes in on two even more primal anxieties: fear of death and fear of the other. To which you might well ask, aren’t all horror movies about surviving an unknown threat of some kind? Yes, but few have assumed the psychic toll taken by such violence — or stared death directly in the bloodshot eyes — quite so effectively. Though conceived as the start of a new trilogy, “28 Years Later” towers on its own merits (part two, subtitled “The Bone Temple,” is in the can and expected next January).

Popular on Variety

Apart from its first and last scenes, which introduce a charismatic lad named Jimmy (played by “Sinners” villain Jack O’Connell) who learns to defend himself after seeing his local priest and parents killed, the film focuses on a small collective that has taken refuge on Holy Island, just off the coast of Northern England. The nearby Scottish mainland is literally crawling with the infected, a new strain of which are blubbery, slow-moving scavengers who eat earthworms off the forest floor. They’re disgusting, but little danger to Jamie (Aaron Taylor-Johnson) or his 12-year-old son, Spike (Alfie Williams), whom he’s taken ashore for a father-son foraging mission — the boy’s maiden trek beyond the walls.

Spike is cocky at first, but freezes up when it comes time to shoot. He’s been training with the bow and arrow, but shakes uncontrollably at the prospect of killing an onrushing attacker. Perhaps he wasn’t expecting them to look so much like the good people back home (minus the clothes and attention to hygiene). In the most spectacular leg of the pair’s surreal excursion, Jamie drags his son across a half-submerged causeway while a cheetah-quick, silverback-strong berserker sprints after them.

The sequence looks positively hallucinatory, illuminated by night stars and aurora borealis streaks in the sky above. Nothing about the film’s look — from unnerving, avant-garde inserts of medieval soldiers to infrared flashes of the oft-misunderstood infected — could be described as conventional. That’s a logical next step from “28 Days Later,” which Boyle shot using low-grade digital cameras. It hurts the eyes to revisit that footage on today’s hi-def formats, revolutionary as the film was for its time.

Here, the radical stylist (responsible for “Trainspotting” and “Trance”) updates his technology to cutting-edge iPhones, which maintain a similarly unsettling home-video edge without compromising the clarity or the aspect ratio — a dramatic, ultra-panoramic frame that’s nearly three times as wide as it is tall. Such lightweight equipment gives DP Anthony Dod Mantle enormous flexibility, whether tracking action by hand or squeezing into tight spaces.

Editor Jon Harris adds another edge, unpredictably jumping axis and splicing in non-diegetic elements in strategic defiance of traditional visual logic. Things settle down somewhat after Spike returns home to process what he’s just witnessed. In the wild, he spotted a far-off bonfire, where a rogue doctor, Ian Kelson (Ralph Fiennes), is said to be burning corpses by the hundreds — someone it’s hard not to imagine as the iodine-smeared Colonel Kurtz in this heart of darkness, until such time as his own secrets come to light.

Something’s wrong with Spike’s mother (Jodie Comer), who seems disoriented and combative at times. Centuries earlier, she might have been labeled a witch. Now, there’s a good chance she could be infected with something (a new strain of Rage, perhaps?). Finding his courage, Spike convinces his mom to follow him back out into the world, hoping to find a cure or simply some kind of explanation. Doing so means risking death — or worse, exposing either of them to the mutating virus, which has produced intimidating new “alphas,” who swell up and stand tall, striking fresh fear in the audience.

Transmitted by blood, Rage doesn’t kill people outright, but functions like a fast-acting form of rabies, sending the infected into an instant hyperaggressive frenzy. Fans of “28 Days Later” credit Boyle with accelerating the lumbering zombie-movie trope: Instead of getting bitten and waiting hours or days to become braindead flesh-eaters (always the most tedious part of Romero-era zombie classics), Boyle’s infected switched over within seconds.

Technically speaking, these frightening creatures aren’t zombies, and though our heroes (Cillian Murphy and Naomie Harris, both MIA in this movie) didn’t hesitate to kill the so-called infected in the original, this sequel restores their humanity. There’s still no antidote, mind you, but that doesn’t mean these poor Rage-compromised souls don’t merit a bit of respect — which Garland generously bestows in the film’s contemplative bone temple scene. One doesn’t expect a high-tension genre movie to suddenly turn eschatological in the home stretch, but that pivot mirrors the original, which spent its final third at a mansion in Manchester, where soldiers proved a greater threat than the infected.

Where the Manchester scene showed how quickly moral collapse followed such a pandemic, demonstrating that human nature didn’t need Rage to unleash its aggressive tendencies, Fiennes’ scenes provide a more optimistic outlook. As Kelson puts it, the infected and uninfected are more alike than we care to admit. Surviving COVID taught us that, whereas the AIDS crisis was more complicated, since many cast judgment on how the virus was passed. The movie invites such thoughts, along with reflection on our own mortality. Typically, we look to adrenaline-fueled entertainment for catharsis. Boyle’s thrilling reboot offers enlightenment as well.

Read More About:
28 Years Later, Danny Boyle
Jump To Comments
‘28 Years Later’ Review: Danny Boyle Revives — and Radically Evolves — His Hit Horror Saga in Time to Confront the Next Apocalypse
Reviewed at Sony screening room, June 16, 2025. MPA Rating: R. Running time: 115 MIN.
Production: Producers: Andrew Macdonald, Peter Rice, Bernard Bellew, Danny Boyle, Alex Garland. Executive producer: Cillian Murphy.
Crew: Director: Danny Boyle. Screenplay: Alex Garland. Camera: Anthony Dod Mantle. Editor: Jon Harris. Music: Young Fathers.
With: Jodie Comer, Aaron Taylor-Johnson, Jack O’Connell, Alfie Williams, Ralph Fiennes.
More from Variety
‘Harry Potter’ Star Nick Frost Disagrees With J.K. Rowling’s Trans Views, Disabled Instagram Comments Amid Backlash to Working With Her: We ‘Don’t Align in Any Way’
Russell Simmons Sues HBO for $20 Million Over ‘On the Record’ Documentary
Warner Bros. Discovery Split: What Will Happen to the Movie Studios, HBO Max, Cable Networks and Other Businesses?
‘The Comeback’ Returns! Lisa Kudrow Set for Season 3 of HBO Comedy Series
‘Last of Us’ Shocker: Neil Druckmann Exits HBO Series Ahead of Season 3
J.K. Rowling Raves About HBO’s ‘Harry Potter’ Series After Working ‘Closely’ With the Writers: ‘I’ve Read the First Two Episodes. They Are So, So Good’
Loading comments...
Most Popular
Travis Kelce Says the ‘Hardest’ Part of Hosting ‘SNL’ Was the Table Read Because He ‘Can’t Really Read That Well’: ‘Kind of a F–ed Situation…
Scarlett Johansson Says She Was Offered ‘A Lot’ of Roles ‘Revolving’ Around ‘Desirability’ and ‘The Male Gaze’ as a Young Actress: ‘That Is Less…
Olivia Munn Disagreed With a Male Director, Says He Retaliated by Telling a Movie Studio She’s ‘Combative’ on Set: ‘He Wanted to Ruin My Chances of…
Diddy Found Guilty of Transportation to Engage in Prostitution, Could Face 20 Years in Prison Despite Dodging Major Charges
Christopher Nolan’s ‘The Odyssey’ Teaser Leaks Online Amid Theatrical Rollout: Here’s What Happens in the First Footage
Jennifer Aniston to Star in ‘I’m Glad My Mom Died’ Series at Apple TV+, Based on ‘iCarly’ Star Jennette McCurdy's Memoir
The Best TV Shows of 2025 (So Far)
Microsoft to Lay Off Thousands; Xbox Chief Says Gaming Division Cuts Will Remove ‘Layers of Management’
‘Last of Us’ Shocker: Neil Druckmann Exits HBO Series Ahead of Season 3
‘The Bear’ Renewed for Season 5 by FX
Must Read
Music
COVER | ‘My Job Is to F—ing Sing’: Bad Bunny on the 'Pride, Pain and Love' Behind His Massive Puerto Rico Residency
Film
How Steven Spielberg’s ‘Jaws’ Endured a Hellish Production to Become Hollywood’s First Summer Blockbuster
TV
‘This Is Real Life’: How Bravo’s ‘The Valley’ Navigated Drug Addiction, a Violent Incident and a Cast Member in a Mental Health…
Film
The Alpha Zombie Speaks: '28 Years Later' Star Chi Lewis-Parry on Samson’s Huge Prosthetic
Music
Barbra Streisand on Her New Album, Not Being Paid Enough for ‘Meet the Fockers’ and if She’ll Ever Direct or Perform Live Again
Sign Up for Variety Newsletters
Sign Up
Sign Up
By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Variety Confidential

A Variety and iHeartRadio Podcast

More From Our Brands
Rolling Stone
How to Create an Allergy-Proof Bedroom to Actually Get a Comfortable Night’s Sleep (For Once)
Robb Report
Reality TV Titan Mark Burnett Is Asking $350,000 Per Month for His Blufftop Estate in Malibu
Sportico
NCAA’s Longest-Serving Official, Defender of Amateurism, to Retire
WWD
Rachel Brosnahan Embraces Bold Cutouts in Armani Privé for ‘Superman’ Fan Event in London
TVLine
The Last of Us Co-Creator to Depart Ahead of Season 3: ‘Now Is the Right Time’