URL: https://www.oxfordstudent.com/2025/06/27/28-years-later/
Title: 28 Years Later: A review – The Oxford Student

Culture·27th June 2025
28 Years Later: A review

Term is over and everyone is going back home for the holidays. To my Dad this meant one thing and one thing only: it was time for my education on Danny Boyle’s cult classic, 28 Days Later, to begin. My bags were barely out of the car before I was parked on the sofa and the first instalment was cued up.

Released in 2002, starring Cillian Murphy (of more recent Peaky Blinders and Oppenheimer fame), the viral apocalypse which sets the scene for this zombie-esque horror does not in fact resurrect the dead. The virus, known only as ‘rage’, originated in a Cambridge laboratory studying chimpanzees. It turns the host into a rage-filled, flesh-eating monster, though one which is very much alive and can be killed in any of the usual ways you kill a human being.

Our protagonist, Jim, wakes in hospital 28 days after the initial outbreak and explores a deserted London, trying to figure out what happened. The age of the film shows in its slower pace and much greater emphasis on character work than the action-packed thrillers which usually grace our screens, though I found this a welcome change from the relentlessness of most modern media. Packed with subtle storytelling, a healthy dose of British humor and a barely dressed Cillian Murphy, 28 Days Later is a memorable affair – light-hearted in the face of tragedy and as relatable as it gets.

In line with the more relaxed pace of the first film, I refused to watch its 2007 sequel the same day. Instead it was the first thing my Dad mentioned when I got up the next morning. Alongside a cup of tea and a bacon sandwich, we began 28 Weeks Later, featuring one of the most accurate portrayals of the American military in film: slick, well funded, more firepower than you could ever hope to use, and yet somehow still totally ineffective in achieving any of their goals.

Featuring a star-studded cast including Idris Elba, Rose Byrne, Jeremy Renner and Imogen Poots, to name but a few, 28 Weeks Later may be set in the same world, but the cinematography is from a different universe. Gone is the relaxed pacing and British charm of the first film; in its place, endless panic and a total lack of development from any of the characters. Rather than the under-utilised performances of its actors, I will probably remember this film for my Dad’s running commentary on all the London geography they got wrong, and the plethora of locations in the city in which you could land a helicopter.

28 Years Later is a generation removed from the prior installments of the series. England is a memory, maintained by those who survived the initial waves of infection, exploring the belief and faith which binds a community together in the face of tragedy. Set on Lindisfarne, otherwise known as Holy Island off the coast of Northumberland, religious classics such as ‘Abide With Me’ return to score a film centred in a traditional English village hall featuring God and a portrait of the Queen.

The film stars newcomer Alfie Williams as 12 year old Spike, as he takes his first trip off the island with his father (Aaron Taylor-Johnson) to hunt the infected on the mainland. We are introduced to evolved variants – infected who hunt in packs, and some who have survived alone, bloated, and crawling slowly across the forest floor. As fun days out with your father go, I’ll stick to the cinema.

Boyle’s return to the director’s chair restored the humanity of the first film. Rather than unfeeling action and violence, each sequence brought more understanding and depth to the characters on screen. I jumped, I laughed, I cried. Imagery, led by the first instalment’s cinematographer, Anthony Dod Mantle, once again focused on British culture – though admittedly more on the island’s history given its isolation from the modern world.

Shots of the Angel of the North, sycamore gap and pagan-esque monuments interspersed with clips from early medieval fantasy films of knights firing volleys of arrows towards charging armies. This setting skilfully recontextualises the performances of Ralph Fiennes, Jodie Comer and Taylor-Johnson, making it clear that despite the time setting and hints of modern life, this is a far more primitive Britain.

Having now seen the whole franchise to date, Boyle’s initial offering remains the greatest achievement of the three, followed closely by his latest. As for 28 Weeks Later? It’s forgettable and almost certainly possible to skip. Where the franchise will go in the upcoming instalments of this proposed sequel trilogy remains to be seen, but I (and my Dad) will certainly be watching.

 Post Views: 1,267
Liked this article? Why not share it?
Related
Director’s Cut: Films You’re Dying to Watch….
28th October 2016
Warfare (2025): A Review
28th May 2025
Zombie Angst: ‘Warm Bodies’ Review
16th February 2013