URL: https://collider.com/tron-ares-rating-pg-13-jared-leto/
Title: 'Tron: Ares' Breaks Franchise Record 2 Months Before Release

'Tron: Ares' Breaks Franchise Record 2 Months Before Release
By 
Shrishty Mishra
Published Aug 14, 2025
Follow
Like
Thread
1
Link copied to clipboard

It all began in 1982 with Tron, when the idea of being stuck in a digital grid and interacting with programs seemed revolutionary. The original film, led by Jeff Bridges, became a cult classic for its futuristic vision and was followed by Tron: Legacy in 2010, which reached the greater heights of success with an Oscar nomination and the same cult status (even if it didn't wow at the box office). Now Disney is breathing new life into the sci-fi franchise with a standalone sequel, Tron: Ares, starring Jared Leto, that will be a mix of futuristic vision, action-heavy set pieces, and an emotional story at its heart.

The rating of Tron: Ares has been revealed, and it’s breaking the franchise tradition with its PG-13 rating for violence and action. This is a first for the franchise as the 1982 Tron and follow-up Tron: Legacy were both rated PG, so the new rating indicates that the Grid will be more vicious and very dangerous this time around. Further, it emphasizes that Disney isn’t shying away from slightly more mature content when it comes to its new offerings that give the makers more room to experiment.

What’s Tron: Ares About?

In a story apt for the times, Tron: Ares follows a highly sophisticated program, Ares (Leto), who is sent from the digital world into the real world on a dangerous mission marking humankind's first encounter with sentient A.I. beings. While the sci-fi premise sounds exciting, director Joachim Rønning previously divulged that the story will go in a more emotional direction.

“Emotions will always be something that I strive for, and this film will be more emotional, something I don’t think the franchise has had as much in previous Tron movies,” he said. “Both of them are, in many ways, masterpieces, but what I’m trying to do is create an emotional experience so that’s always going to be front and center. I think that that’s something that I managed to do with this film.”

So, fans can expect the franchise's favorite tropes in an emotional story that explores humans’ encounters with AI beings. The movie cast a slew of talents, including Leto as Ares, Greta Lee as Eve Kim, Evan Peters as Julian Dillinger, Jodie Turner-Smith as Athena, and Gillian Anderson as Elisabeth Dillinger, along with Jeff Bridges reprising original franchise hero Kevin Flynn. Further rounding off the cast are Arturo Castro, Hasan Minhaj, Cameron Monaghan, and Sarah Desjardins in undisclosed roles, among others.

Tron: Ares will debut in theaters on October 10. Stay tuned to Collider for more such updates.

Tron: Ares
NOT YET RATED
Sci-Fi
Action
Adventure
Release Date
October 10, 2025
Director
Joachim Rønning
Writers
Jack Thorne, Jesse Wigutow, David DiGilio
Prequel(s)
TRON, TRON: Legacy
Franchise(s)
Tron
Cast
See All
Jared Leto
Ares
Greta Lee
Eve Kim
Evan Peters
Julian Dillinger
Hasan Minhaj
Ajay Patel
Powered by
Movie News
Tron: Ares
Jared Leto
Follow
Like
Share
THREAD
1

We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.

Reply / Post
      Images
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
morbius

morbius is back

2025-08-14 17:13:51
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
RECOMMENDED
5 days ago
Pierce Brosnan's New Crime Thriller Is Booted From Netflix’s Streaming Charts
6 days ago
The 10 Most Perfectly Paced Movies of All Time, Ranked
5 days ago
10 2000s Box-Office Flops That No One Remembers
4 days ago
The 10 Greatest Monster Movies of the Last 25 Years, Ranked
WHAT TO WATCH
July 20, 2025
The 72 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now
TRENDING NOW
'Yellowstone' Sequel Star Finally Confirmed for Long-Rumored MCU Role
The 3 Best Movies to Watch on Netflix This Week
The Beatles Owe Everything to This Forgotten Fifth Member of the Legendary Band